How to Pick a Great Airline Seat.
Don't get stuck in a middle seat near a bathroom
on your next flight.
With a little time and effort, you can be
sitting pretty.
You will need Priorities A website with airplane
seating diagrams An early booking and a seat
upgrade membership.
Step 1.
There is no single "best seat" on an airplane
— all have their pros and cons — so decide
what's important to you.
Legroom?
Peace and quiet?
A quick exit?
A smooth ride?
Step 2.
Don't assume anything about a seat without
checking it out.
Some bulkhead seats _don't_ offer extra legroom,
some "window" seats are _between_ windows
and therefore offer little view, and many
exit seats, while providing more legroom,
are narrower than other seats.
Find out what kind of plane you'll be on and
then visit "seatexpert.com":http:// or "seatguru.com":http://.
Click on any seat to see its pros and cons.
Step 3.
Pay a small fee to ensure you get a seat with
the most legroom.
Many airlines now identify their best seats
on their websites and charge for them accordingly.
Step 4.
Take reclining into account.
If you like to sit back, avoid the last rows
in any section.
If you hate people leaning into your lap,
try to snare an exit seat; the seats in front
of those rows usually don't recline.
Exit row seats are often not assigned until
check-in.
To snag one, get to the airport early.
Step 5.
Consider the pitch of the seat, which is the
distance between your seat and the one in
front of you.
You'll find this information on airline seat
websites.
Step 6.
Take turbulence into account.
If you're a white-knuckle flyer, sit over
the front of the wing; that's where you're
least likely to feel turbulence.
Avoid the back, where you'll feel every bump.
Step 7.
If you need peace and quiet, avoid sitting
in the back, where the engines are the loudest.
And steer clear of the bulkhead, where families
with babies are usually seated.
Step 8.
When you buy your ticket, be sure to book
your specific seat, either online or by calling
the airline directly.
Increase your odds of sitting beside an empty
middle seat by requesting a back row where
either the aisle or window seat is already
booked.
The middle seats in back rows fill up last.
Step 9.
Check back 24 hours before your flight; this
is when prime seating often is released.
Plus, airlines occasionally switch planes,
possibly turning your chosen seat into an
undesirable one!
Step 10.
If you're a frequent flyer, consider joining
an airline program that guarantees a good
seat for an annual fee.
Did you know The average airline seat in coach
is just 17.2 inches wide.